Updates operator docs (#2622)
VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics: docs/operator/vmalertmanager-configuration.MD

---
sort: 13
---

# Managing configuration for VMAlertmanager

 Operator generates configuration file for `VMAlertmanager` based on user input at definition of `CRD`.
Generated config stored at `Secret` created by operator, it has the following name template `vmalertmanager-CRD_NAME-config`.

> This configuration file mounted at `VMAlertmanager` `Pod`. Special side-car container tracks it changes at sends config-reload signal to `alertmanager` container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration file mounted at `VMAlertmanager` `Pod`. Special side-car container tracks its changes and sends config-reload signals to `alertmanager` container.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vmalertmanager-example-alertmanager
  labels:
    app: vm-operator
type: Opaque
stringData:
  alertmanager.yaml: |
    global:
      resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      receiver: 'webhook'
    receivers:
      - name: 'webhook'
        webhook_configs:
          - url: 'http://alertmanagerwh:30500/'
---
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAlertmanager
metadata:
  name: example-alertmanager
spec:
  replicaCount: 2
  configSecret: vmalertmanager-example-alertmanager
```

## Using inline raw config

 Also, if there is no secret data at configuration, or you just want to redefine some global variables for `alertmanager`.
You can define configuration at `spec.configRawYaml` section of `VMAlertmanager` configuration:
```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAlertmanager
metadata:
  name: example-alertmanager
spec:
  replicaCount: 2
  configRawYaml: |
    global:
       resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      receiver: 'default'
      group_interval: 5m
      repeat_interval: 12h
    receivers:
    - name: 'default'
```

>  If both `configSecret` and `configRawYaml` is defined, only configuration from `configRawYaml` will be used. Values from `configRawYaml` will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 If both `configSecret` and `configRawYaml` are defined, only configuration from `configRawYaml` will be used. Values from `configRawYaml` will be ignored.
```
